JAMES PIERSON 
2747 Morgensen M: 832 247 6558 Houston, TX 7706
Cell:                                                                                                               jpierson2018@gmail.com                 
Career Profile Performance Oriented Production Control/ Materials Manager who has overseen costly projects with deadlines and manufacturing constraints. Develop and implemented Lean 5S projects in multiple production and warehouse environments including direct measures for inventory control and “Just in Time” coordinating of production and manufacturing schedules.   Work History 
 
EDGE Deephole Drilling Tools and Systems, Houston TX 
Operations/Production Control October 2015- Present  
Direct liaison between the manufacturing facility and customer plants to ensure the manufacturing demands and customer schedule scopes are met.  
Worked directly with plant and shop managers to meet the deephole drilling/ Trepanning needs for metal removal methods to maximize production in metal removing processes 
Scheduled inventory control methods for multiple manufacturing plants to ensure that customer productions schedules can be performed with correct metal removing tools and chemical needs. 
Coordinated all logistical incoming chemical and tooling freight to ensure that “just in time” demands are met according to customer demands. 
To assist in the resolution of any issues that may arise in the production process by working cooperatively with customers and manufacturing facilities. 
Coordinated all Warehouse inbound and outbound fright using “just in time” delivery methods to keep a revolving stock to ensuring limited stock. Drill Quip, Houston TX Production Scheduler January? 2013- October  2015 As production scheduler I was responsible for but not limited to  
Strategically placing material for processing in our perspective work centers in the most efficient way possible with minimal cost of operation.  
To identify constraints within the production process and provide solutions while maintaining a schedule based on customer need dates.  
Analyze production and provide reports of schedule execution.  
 It is my responsibility to expedite quarterly revenue components, builds and fabrications throughout the entire manufacturing process, from forge raw material to final assembly or fabrication.  
 To assist in the resolution of any issues that may arise in the production process by working cooperatively with all departments.  
Hold the role for production control in ECN / EDW processes.  
 Monitor the MRP system to identify current stock to initiate next level builds to meet customer deadlines. 
 Supervised and scheduled warranty work in completed houses 
Monitor the MRP system to identify current stock to initiate next level builds to meet customer deadlines. 
 
DirecSupply    
Production Control/ Warehouse Manager                                   May 2010- December 2013 
Responsible for all operations of a 10,000-sq. ft. warehouse. Including all employees, Safety Measures, equipment maintenance schedules, manufacturing and production schedules, out/inbound freight, 5S Lean and Kaizen meetings. 
 ?Responsible for the OSHA, LEAN Systems and production schedules for all warehouse and manufacturing employees. 
?Managed and implemented inventory control cycle counts and daily analysis to solve             inventory problems. 
 ?Develop, implement, and train for inventory control measures. 
 ?Oversee multiple projects to ensure that timeline needs were met in a fast-paced atmosphere 
 ?Created and implemented a strategic lean implementation plan including Kaizen, 5S schedules, and continues improvement methods throughout the facility. 
 ?Trained employees on computer based software to establish customer accounts 
 ?Hire, train, terminate all employees related to warehousing and production areas 
  
Whitestone Builders - Assistant Project Manager (intern) – Heights Area November 2004 - October 2010 Responsible for assisting the Project Manager and Superintendent of Construction in numerous developments throughout the Historic Heights area. Excelled in finding ways to reduce costs and streamline the construction process within a dynamic, fast-paced atmosphere.  
Responsible for material orders throughout the building process 
 Negotiation Change orders and contractor costs 
Enforced OSHA, EPA and SWPP compliance on job site 
 Responsible for contractor scheduling 
Scheduled inventory and loss prevention 
 Assisted the Project Manager meeting timelines and inspections  
Assisted customers with change orders to meet expected needs  
   Education Houston Baptist University -Bachelors of Business Administration - GPA 3.8, Top 10%, Cum Laude   
Military Service United States Navy, Norfolk V.A. U.S.S Harry S Truman CVN 75 Airman V1 Div.   Computer Skills? – SAP, Inventory Control Software (daily cycle count), High level of Excel experience in productions schedules, Quick Books (moderate), and 5S Lean schedules.
